# Skripsi - Development of Information Retrieval System with Term Reweighting Relevance Feedback

Retrieval of information is an activity to find certain information/documents in a large document collection/information collection. The information that people usually look for can be in the form of data such as text, images, videos and audio. The search system will receive a keyword from the user called query. The system will be retrieve all documents / information related to the query by reading the indexed document/information. Index is a list of every word that appears in the document collection along with a list of documents containing one of each word in the index.

Search systems are widely used by people to find information. However, it is possible that the results received by users from the search system are not satisfactory. The search results are not satisfactory if the documents/information related to the user are not in the top order. There is a solution to overcome these problems, namely by using the relevance feedback feature. Relevance feedback is a feature on search engines that will return more relevant results than before. The feedback received by the system are documents that are deemed relevant by the system or users. There are two ways relevance feedback that can be implemented in search system, namely rochio feedback and probabilistic feedback.

There are two ways to measure the performance of the search system, namely precision and recall. Precision is a measurement related to the accuracy of the search system in providing relevant documents. Recall relates to the search system's ability to return all documents relevant to the query.

A search system will be created using both relevance feedback algorithms. To create a search system, features are needed to read documents, index documents that have been read, and perform searches on the index. In addition to creating a search system, a system will be created to test the performance of the search system. To build the two systems, we will use an open-source search engine software library called Lucene. Lucene will provide tools that can assist in building search engine systems and search engine performance testing systems.

This thesis has been tested for the search system using both relevance feedback algorithms. Based on the tests carried out, it was found that the best way of relevance feedback is rochio relevance feedback if the system is measured with precision and recall. In addition, it was found that in 1 second indexing can index more than 1000 documents.

A search system has been developed using both relevance feedback algorithms. To create a search system, features are needed to read documents, index documents that have been read, and perform searches on the index. In addition to creating a search system, a system will be created to test the performance of the search system. To build the two systems, the library search engine software open-source software named Lucene will be utilized. Lucene will provide tools that can assist in building search engine systems and search engine performance testing systems.
